All right. In this notebook,
I'm reading in my data again and I'm starting out with the same convolutional structure.
The encoder is made of a series of convolutional and maxpooling layers,
and our compressed representation is the same,
a seven by seven by four output.
What's changing is how I make this decoder portion.
Instead of just including transpose convolutional layers,
I'm combining nearest neighbor interpolation with normal convolutional layers.
Nearest neighbor interpolation is
just an upsampling method that copies over pixel values from,
say, a two-by-two area to a four-by-four area.
So, after the seven-by-seven-by-four compressed representation is created by the encoder,
I upsample that by a factor of two to get a 14 by 14 by 4 tensor.
Then, I put it through a convolutional layer to increase the depth to 16.
Then one more upsample to get to the size I want, 28 by 28,
and one more convolutional layer to get us to the size of the reconstructed output,
28 by 28 by 1.
So basically, I replaced
one transpose convolutional layer with an upsample function and a convolutional layer.
The convolutional layer changes the depth of an input and acts as a series of
image filters that can learn to cleverly
transform the layers in between upsampling functions.
Okay. So, if I go down to my autoencoder code,
I can see my two convolutional layers and pooling layer that defined my encoder.
Then my decoder layers are just the two convolutional layers that go from 4-16,
to 16-1 in depth.
The biggest change is in the forward function,
where I have my encoder layers and the decoder looks a little different.
After the compressed representation, I call F.upsample.
In some versions of PyTorch,
this may be may interpellate,
but it's the same function.
I pass in my input X and I scale it up by a factor of two,
using nearest neighbor interpolation.
Then I pass this up-sampled X into a convolutional layer.
Again for each hidden layer,
I'm applying a relu activation function and a sigmoid to the very last output.
Okay. So, I defined this model and I
trained it for the exact same length as I did before.
Here you can see the loss starts out a little lower at about
0.32 and decreases to a lower value as well.
And here are the original and then reconstructed images underneath.
And I think these look really good.
These images are a bit smoother and they look really close to the original version.
Now both the transpose convolutional layers
and this upsampling approach work for this task,
and I'd like you to keep in mind that many tasks have multiple solutions.
In fact, the best deep learning researchers and learners
have investigated a number of options for solutions,
different architectures that might offer certain benefits or trade-offs.
And next, I want to give you a free form challenge
for you to try out a solution of your own design.